docs/sources/mobile-app/push-notifications/index.md, before:

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/mobile-app/push-notifications/
keywords:
  - Mobile App
  - oncall
  - notification
  - push notification
title: Push notifications
weight: 200
---

# Push notifications

There are three types of push notifications for the mobile app:

- **Mobile push** - Sends a typical push notification to your mobile device.  Intended for all types of alerts.
- **Mobile push important** - Sends a push notification for important alerts.  We recommend (and default) to louder notifications.
- **On-Call Shift Notifications** - Sends announcements for upcoming shifts (optional).

## Add mobile app to notification policies

To receive push notifications from the Grafana OnCall mobile app, you must add them to your notification policy steps.
**Important notifications** should include **Mobile push important** and **Default notifications** should include **Mobile push**.

In the **Settings** tab of the mobile app, tap on **Notification policies** to review, reorder, remove, add or change steps.  
Alternatively, you can do the same on desktop. From Grafana OnCall, navigate to the **Users** page, click **View my profile** and navigate to the **User Info** tab.

<img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-v1-android-notification-policies.png" width="300px">

## Configuration

Use the **Push notifications** section in the **Settings** tab to configure push notifications.

You can always confirm how a notification is presented by going to Grafana OnCall on your desktop,
navigate to the **Users** page, click **View my profile** and navigate to the **Mobile App connection** tab.
Here you can send a test notification of default or important priority.  We recommend doing this to try out
correct configuration of **Do Not Disturb** and **Volume** overrides.

### Android

On Android, we leverage the "Notification channels" system feature.
Each type of notification (**important**, **default**, and **on-call shifts**) registers a channel.
In this channel, you may configure the sound style, vibration, and so on.
**Customize notifications** takes you to this system menu, while hitting the **back** button or swiping left (if enabled) takes you back to the application.

>**Note**: You can explore included sounds and recommendations via the **Sound Library** button, but to change the sound, go to **Customize notifications**.

#### Override Do Not Disturb

- On most Android versions, the **Override Do Not Disturb** option is available in the channel options described above.
- On some Samsung devices, you can add the Grafana Oncall app under (System) Settings > Notifications > Do not disturb > App notifications.
- If your device does something different, you may need to search for this setting for notifications via the (System) Settings app.
  Do not confuse this with the **Override Do Not Disturb** application permission, needed for **Volume Overrides** (see below).

#### Override Volume

**Volume Override** can optionally be configured in the mobile app itself.
Confusingly, this requires you to provide the **Override Do Not Disturb** permission to the application, in the system configuration.
The app will prompt for this if applicable.  Note that this is a different setting than the **Do Not Disturb** override needed for
notifications triggered by the application, which is described above.

<img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-v1-android-settings.png" width="300px">
<img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-v1-android-push-notifications-prompt.png" width="300px">
<!-- not showing these images because we don't have a nice way to show this many -->
<!-- <img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-v1-android-push-notifications.png" width="300px"> -->
<!-- <img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-v1-android-important-channel-1.png" width="300px"> -->
<img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-v1-android-important-channel-2.png" width="300px">
<img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-v1-android-sound-recommendation.png" width="300px">

### iOS

On iOS, all configuration (such as sound selection, Do Not Disturb override, etc) happens inside the app.

For every type of notification (**important**, **default**, and **on-call shifts**), you can configure the sound and its style (constant vs intensifying).

You can also enable or disable Do Not Disturb override for **important** notifications.

<img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-settings-iphone.png" width="300px">
<img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-sound-recommendation.png" width="300px">

### On-call shift notifications

On-call shift notifications are sent to announce upcoming shifts, roughly ~15 minutes in advance.

To enable or disable on-call shift notifications, use the **On-call shift notifications** section in the **Push notifications** settings.

Commit message:

Add documentation about shift swap requests (#2719)
Related to https://github.com/grafana/oncall/issues/2589

---------

Co-authored-by: Vadim Stepanov <vadimkerr@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Dieter Plaetinck <dieter@plaetinck.be>

docs/sources/mobile-app/push-notifications/index.md, after:

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/mobile-app/push-notifications/
keywords:
  - Mobile App
  - oncall
  - notification
  - push notification
title: Push notifications
weight: 200
---

# Push notifications

There are four types of push notifications for the mobile app:

- **Mobile push** - Sends a typical push notification to your mobile device.  Intended for all types of alerts.
- **Mobile push important** - Sends a push notification for important alerts.  We recommend (and default) to louder notifications.
- **On-call shift notifications** - Sends announcements for upcoming shifts (optional).
- **Shift swap notifications** - Sends announcements for [shift swap requests][shift-swaps] (optional).

## Add mobile app to notification policies

To receive push notifications from the Grafana OnCall mobile app, you must add them to your notification policy steps.
**Important notifications** should include **Mobile push important** and **Default notifications** should include **Mobile push**.

In the **Settings** tab of the mobile app, tap on **Notification policies** to review, reorder, remove, add or change steps.  
Alternatively, you can do the same on desktop. From Grafana OnCall, navigate to the **Users** page, click **View my profile** and navigate to the **User Info** tab.

<img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-v1-android-notification-policies.png" width="300px">

## Configuration

Use the **Push notifications** section in the **Settings** tab to configure push notifications.

You can always confirm how a notification is presented by going to Grafana OnCall on your desktop,
navigate to the **Users** page, click **View my profile** and navigate to the **Mobile App connection** tab.
Here you can send a test notification of default or important priority.  We recommend doing this to try out
correct configuration of **Do Not Disturb** and **Volume** overrides.

### Android

On Android, we leverage the "Notification channels" system feature.
Each type of notification (**important**, **default**, and **info**) registers a channel.
In this channel, you may configure the sound style, vibration, and so on.
**Customize notifications** takes you to this system menu, while hitting the **back** button or swiping left (if enabled) takes you back to the application.

>**Note**: You can explore included sounds and recommendations via the **Sound Library** button, but to change the sound, go to **Customize notifications**.

#### Override Do Not Disturb

- On most Android versions, the **Override Do Not Disturb** option is available in the channel options described above.
- On some Samsung devices, you can add the Grafana Oncall app under (System) Settings > Notifications > Do not disturb > App notifications.
- If your device does something different, you may need to search for this setting for notifications via the (System) Settings app.
  Do not confuse this with the **Override Do Not Disturb** application permission, needed for **Volume Overrides** (see below).

#### Override Volume

**Volume Override** can optionally be configured in the mobile app itself.
Confusingly, this requires you to provide the **Override Do Not Disturb** permission to the application, in the system configuration.
The app will prompt for this if applicable.  Note that this is a different setting than the **Do Not Disturb** override needed for
notifications triggered by the application, which is described above.

<img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-v1-android-settings.png" width="300px">
<img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-v1-android-push-notifications-prompt.png" width="300px">
<!-- not showing these images because we don't have a nice way to show this many -->
<!-- <img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-v1-android-push-notifications.png" width="300px"> -->
<!-- <img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-v1-android-important-channel-1.png" width="300px"> -->
<img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-v1-android-important-channel-2.png" width="300px">
<img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-v1-android-sound-recommendation.png" width="300px">

### iOS

On iOS, all configuration (such as sound selection, Do Not Disturb override, etc) happens inside the app.

For every type of notification (**important**, **default**, and **info**), you can configure the sound and its style (constant vs intensifying).

You can also enable or disable Do Not Disturb override for **important** notifications.

<img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-settings-iphone.png" width="300px">
<img src="/static/img/oncall/mobile-app-sound-recommendation.png" width="300px">

### On-call shift notifications

On-call shift notifications are sent to announce upcoming shifts, roughly ~15 minutes in advance.

To enable or disable on-call shift notifications, use the **info notifications** section in the **Push notifications** settings.

### Shift swap notifications

Shift swap notifications are generated when a [shift swap ][shift-swaps] is requested,
informing all users in the on-call schedule (except the initiator) about it.

To enable or disable shift swap notifications and their follow-ups, use the **info notifications** section
in the **Push notifications** settings.

{{% docs/reference %}}
[shift-swaps]: "/docs/oncall/ -> /docs/oncall/<ONCALL VERSION>/on-call-schedules/shift-swaps"
[shift-swaps]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/oncall/on-call-schedules/shift-swaps"
{{% /docs/reference %}}
