docs/sources/integrations/jira/index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - jira/
  - /docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-jira/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-jira/
keywords:
  - Grafana Cloud
  - Alerts
  - Notifications
  - on-call
  - Jira
title: Jira
weight: 500
---

# Jira integration for Grafana OnCall

The Jira integration for Grafana OnCall handles issue events sent from Jira webhooks.
The integration provides grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve logic via customizable alert templates.

> You must have the [role of Admin]({{< relref "user-and-team-management" >}}) to be able to create integrations in Grafana OnCall.

## Configuring Grafana OnCall to Receive Alerts from Jira

1. In the **Integrations** tab, click **+ New integration**.
2. Select **Jira** from the list of available integrations.
3. Enter a name and description for the integration, click **Create**
4. A new page will open with the integration details. Copy the **OnCall Integration URL** from **HTTP Endpoint** section. You will need it when configuring Jira.

## Configuring Jira to Send Alerts to Grafana OnCall

Create a new webhook connection in Jira to send events to Grafana OnCall using the integration URL above.

Refer to [Jira documentation](https://developer.atlassian.com/server/jira/platform/webhooks/) for more information on how to create and manage webhooks

When creating a webhook in Jira, select the following events to be sent to Grafana OnCall:

1. Issue - created
2. Issue - updated
3. Issue - deleted
After setting up the connection, you can test it by creating a new issue in Jira. You should see a new alert group in Grafana OnCall.

## Grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve

Grafana OnCall provides grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve logic for the Jira integration:

- Alerts created from issue events are grouped by issue key
- Alert groups are auto-acknowledged when the issue status is set to "work in progress"
- Alert groups are auto-resolved when the issue is closed or deleted

To customize this behaviour, consider modifying alert templates in integration settings.

Commit message:

Update all links to use `docs/reference` style
The `docs/reference` shortcode supports contextual destinations and version inference.

`<ONCALL VERSION>` is inferred to match the version of the documentation set.
For example, the inferred version for the page /docs/grafana/oncall/latest/get-started/ is "latest".
It can also be overriden using front matter.
Given the same page, but with the additional front matter `oncall_version: next`, the variable is substituted with "next" rather than "latest".

This is used by the Grafana Cloud documentation to always link to the "next" version of OnCall documentation which is expected to match the code deployed in Grafana Cloud more closely than "latest".
If this is not correct, please let me know so I can make the appropriate changes in the website.

Contextual destinations are achieved using repeated labels in the shortcode inner text.
The format is [<LABEL>]: "<PAGE PATH PREFIX> -> <HUGO REFERENCE>".

- _`<LABEL>`_ matches the reference style link label used in the rest of the text.
- _`<PAGE PATH PREFIX>`_ is matched against the page during the production build.
  If the match is successful, the destination that is used is _`<HUGO REFERENCE>`_.
  The first matching prefix is used, not the longest matching prefix.

Signed-off-by: Jack Baldry <jack.baldry@grafana.com>

docs/sources/integrations/jira/index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - jira/
  - /docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-jira/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-jira/
keywords:
  - Grafana Cloud
  - Alerts
  - Notifications
  - on-call
  - Jira
title: Jira
weight: 500
---

# Jira integration for Grafana OnCall

The Jira integration for Grafana OnCall handles issue events sent from Jira webhooks.
The integration provides grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve logic via customizable alert templates.

> You must have the [role of Admin][user-and-team-management] to be able to create integrations in Grafana OnCall.

## Configuring Grafana OnCall to Receive Alerts from Jira

1. In the **Integrations** tab, click **+ New integration**.
2. Select **Jira** from the list of available integrations.
3. Enter a name and description for the integration, click **Create**
4. A new page will open with the integration details. Copy the **OnCall Integration URL** from **HTTP Endpoint** section. You will need it when configuring Jira.

## Configuring Jira to Send Alerts to Grafana OnCall

Create a new webhook connection in Jira to send events to Grafana OnCall using the integration URL above.

Refer to [Jira documentation](https://developer.atlassian.com/server/jira/platform/webhooks/) for more information on how to create and manage webhooks

When creating a webhook in Jira, select the following events to be sent to Grafana OnCall:

1. Issue - created
2. Issue - updated
3. Issue - deleted
After setting up the connection, you can test it by creating a new issue in Jira. You should see a new alert group in Grafana OnCall.

## Grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve

Grafana OnCall provides grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve logic for the Jira integration:

- Alerts created from issue events are grouped by issue key
- Alert groups are auto-acknowledged when the issue status is set to "work in progress"
- Alert groups are auto-resolved when the issue is closed or deleted

To customize this behaviour, consider modifying alert templates in integration settings.

{{% docs/reference %}}
[user-and-team-management]: "/docs/oncall/ -> /docs/oncall/<ONCALL VERSION>/user-and-team-management"
[user-and-team-management]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/oncall/<ONCALL VERSION>/user-and-team-management"
{{% /docs/reference %}}
