docs/sources/integrations/uptimerobot/index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - add-uptimerobot/
  - /docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-uptimerobot/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-uptimerobot/
keywords:
  - Grafana Cloud
  - Alerts
  - Notifications
  - on-call
  - uptimerobot
title: UptimeRobot
weight: 500
---

# UptimeRobot integration for Grafana OnCall

The UptimeRobot integration for Grafana OnCall handles ticket events sent from UptimeRobot webhooks.
The integration provides grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve logic via customizable alert templates.

> You must have the [role of Admin]({{< relref "user-and-team-management" >}}) to be able to create integrations in Grafana OnCall.

## Configuring Grafana OnCall to Receive Alerts from UptimeRobot

1. In the **Integrations** tab, click **+ New integration**.
2. Select **UptimeRobot** from the list of available integrations.
3. Enter a name and description for the integration, click **Create**
4. A new page will open with the integration details. Copy the **OnCall Integration URL** from **HTTP Endpoint** section.

## Configuring UptimeRobot to Send Alerts to Grafana OnCall

1. Open <https://uptimerobot.com> and log in
1. Go to My Settings > Add Alert Contact and set the following fields:
1. Alert Contact Type: Webhook
1. Friendly Name: Grafana OnCall
1. URL to Notify: **OnCall Integration URL**
POST Value (JSON Format):

```yaml
    {
            "monitorURL": "monitorURL",
            "monitorFriendlyName": "monitorFriendlyName",
            "alertType": "alertType",
            "alertTypeFriendlyName": "alertTypeFriendlyName",
            "alertDetails": "alertDetails",
            "alertDuration": "alertDuration",
            "sslExpiryDate": "sslExpiryDate",
            "sslExpiryDaysLeft": "sslExpiryDaysLeft"
    }
```

1. Flag Send as JSON
1. Click Save Changes and Close
1. Send Test Alert to Grafana OnCall

1. Click Add New Monitor
1. Monitor Type HTTP(s)
1. Friendly Name Test Amixr
1. Set URL to <http://devnull.amixr.io> or any other non-existent domain
1. Click Checkbox next to Amixr Alert Contact (created in the previous step)
1. Click Create Monitor

Commit message:

Update all links to use `docs/reference` style (#2456)
# What this PR does

The `docs/reference` shortcode supports contextual destinations and
version inference.

`<ONCALL VERSION>` is inferred to match the version of the documentation
set. For example, the inferred version for the page
/docs/grafana/oncall/latest/get-started/ is "latest". It can also be
overriden using front matter.
Given the same page, but with the additional front matter
`oncall_version: next`, the variable is substituted with "next" rather
than "latest".

Contextual destinations are achieved using repeated labels in the
shortcode inner text. The format is [<LABEL>]: "<PAGE PATH PREFIX> ->
<HUGO REFERENCE>".

- _`<LABEL>`_ matches the reference style link label used in the rest of
the text.
- _`<PAGE PATH PREFIX>`_ is matched against the page during the
production build. If the match is successful, the destination that is
used is _`<HUGO REFERENCE>`_. The first matching prefix is used, not the
longest matching prefix.

## Which issue(s) this PR fixes

- Broken links due to ambiguous relref resolution. Any relref parameter
that does not start with either `/`, `./`, or `../` can resolve
ambiguously and is resulting in broken link behavior on the current
site.
- Broken links in Grafana Cloud. We mount OnCall documentation in
Grafana Cloud. In https://github.com/grafana/website/pull/13872 the
location will become /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/oncall. This
PR is intended to be merged alongside that PR.

---------

Signed-off-by: Jack Baldry <jack.baldry@grafana.com>
Co-authored-by: Joey Orlando <joey.orlando@grafana.com>

docs/sources/integrations/uptimerobot/index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - add-uptimerobot/
  - /docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-uptimerobot/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-uptimerobot/
keywords:
  - Grafana Cloud
  - Alerts
  - Notifications
  - on-call
  - uptimerobot
title: UptimeRobot
weight: 500
---

# UptimeRobot integration for Grafana OnCall

The UptimeRobot integration for Grafana OnCall handles ticket events sent from UptimeRobot webhooks.
The integration provides grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve logic via customizable alert templates.

> You must have the [role of Admin][user-and-team-management] to be able to create integrations in Grafana OnCall.

## Configuring Grafana OnCall to Receive Alerts from UptimeRobot

1. In the **Integrations** tab, click **+ New integration**.
2. Select **UptimeRobot** from the list of available integrations.
3. Enter a name and description for the integration, click **Create**
4. A new page will open with the integration details. Copy the **OnCall Integration URL** from **HTTP Endpoint** section.

## Configuring UptimeRobot to Send Alerts to Grafana OnCall

1. Open <https://uptimerobot.com> and log in
1. Go to My Settings > Add Alert Contact and set the following fields:
1. Alert Contact Type: Webhook
1. Friendly Name: Grafana OnCall
1. URL to Notify: **OnCall Integration URL**
POST Value (JSON Format):

```yaml
    {
            "monitorURL": "monitorURL",
            "monitorFriendlyName": "monitorFriendlyName",
            "alertType": "alertType",
            "alertTypeFriendlyName": "alertTypeFriendlyName",
            "alertDetails": "alertDetails",
            "alertDuration": "alertDuration",
            "sslExpiryDate": "sslExpiryDate",
            "sslExpiryDaysLeft": "sslExpiryDaysLeft"
    }
```

1. Flag Send as JSON
1. Click Save Changes and Close
1. Send Test Alert to Grafana OnCall

1. Click Add New Monitor
1. Monitor Type HTTP(s)
1. Friendly Name Test Amixr
1. Set URL to <http://devnull.amixr.io> or any other non-existent domain
1. Click Checkbox next to Amixr Alert Contact (created in the previous step)
1. Click Create Monitor

{{% docs/reference %}}
[user-and-team-management]: "/docs/oncall/ -> /docs/oncall/<ONCALL VERSION>/user-and-team-management"
[user-and-team-management]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/oncall/user-and-team-management"
{{% /docs/reference %}}
