docs/sources/integrations/elastalert/index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - add-elastalert/
  - /docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-elastalert/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-elastalert/
keywords:
  - Grafana Cloud
  - Alerts
  - Notifications
  - on-call
  - elastalert
title: ElastAlert
weight: 500
---

# ElastAlert integration for Grafana OnCall

The ElastAlert integration for Grafana OnCall handles ticket events sent from ElastAlert webhooks.
The integration provides grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve logic via customizable alert templates.

> You must have the [role of Admin]({{< relref "user-and-team-management" >}}) to be able to create integrations in Grafana OnCall.

## Configuring Grafana OnCall to Receive Alerts from ElastAlert

1. In the **Integrations** tab, click **+ New integration**.
2. Select **ElastAlert** from the list of available integrations.
3. Enter a name and description for the integration, click **Create**
4. A new page will open with the integration details. Copy the **OnCall Integration URL** from **HTTP Endpoint** section.

## Configuring ElastAlert to Send Alerts to Grafana OnCall

To send an alert from ElastAlert to a webhook, follow these steps:

> Refer to [ElastAlert http-post docs](https://elastalert.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ruletypes.html#http-post) for more details

1. Open your ElastAlert configuration file (e.g., `config.yaml`).
2. Locate the `alert` section.
3. Add the following configuration for the webhook alert:

  ```yaml
  alert: post
  http_post_url: "http://example.com/api"
  http_post_static_payload:
    title: abc123
  ```

  Replace `"abc123"` with a suitable name for your alert, and `"http://example.com/api"` with **OnCall Integration URL**.
4. Save the configuration file.

After configuring the webhook, ElastAlert will send alerts to the specified endpoint when triggered.
Make sure your webhook endpoint is configured to receive and process the incoming alerts.

## Grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve

Grafana OnCall provides grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve logic for the ElastAlert integration:

- Alerts created from ticket events are grouped by ticket ID
- Alert groups are auto-acknowledged when the ticket status is set to "Pending"
- Alert groups are auto-resolved when the ticket status is set to "Solved"

To customize this behaviour, consider modifying alert templates in integration settings.

### Configuring Elastalert to send heartbeats to Grafana OnCall Heartbeat

Add the following rule to ElastAlert

```yaml
    index: elastalert_status
    type: any
    alert: post
    http_post_url: {{ heartbeat_url }}
    realert:
        minutes: 1
    alert_text: elastalert is still running
    alert_text_type: alert_text_only
```

Commit message:

Update all links to use `docs/reference` style (#2456)
# What this PR does

The `docs/reference` shortcode supports contextual destinations and
version inference.

`<ONCALL VERSION>` is inferred to match the version of the documentation
set. For example, the inferred version for the page
/docs/grafana/oncall/latest/get-started/ is "latest". It can also be
overriden using front matter.
Given the same page, but with the additional front matter
`oncall_version: next`, the variable is substituted with "next" rather
than "latest".

Contextual destinations are achieved using repeated labels in the
shortcode inner text. The format is [<LABEL>]: "<PAGE PATH PREFIX> ->
<HUGO REFERENCE>".

- _`<LABEL>`_ matches the reference style link label used in the rest of
the text.
- _`<PAGE PATH PREFIX>`_ is matched against the page during the
production build. If the match is successful, the destination that is
used is _`<HUGO REFERENCE>`_. The first matching prefix is used, not the
longest matching prefix.

## Which issue(s) this PR fixes

- Broken links due to ambiguous relref resolution. Any relref parameter
that does not start with either `/`, `./`, or `../` can resolve
ambiguously and is resulting in broken link behavior on the current
site.
- Broken links in Grafana Cloud. We mount OnCall documentation in
Grafana Cloud. In https://github.com/grafana/website/pull/13872 the
location will become /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/oncall. This
PR is intended to be merged alongside that PR.

---------

Signed-off-by: Jack Baldry <jack.baldry@grafana.com>
Co-authored-by: Joey Orlando <joey.orlando@grafana.com>

docs/sources/integrations/elastalert/index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - add-elastalert/
  - /docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-elastalert/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-elastalert/
keywords:
  - Grafana Cloud
  - Alerts
  - Notifications
  - on-call
  - elastalert
title: ElastAlert
weight: 500
---

# ElastAlert integration for Grafana OnCall

The ElastAlert integration for Grafana OnCall handles ticket events sent from ElastAlert webhooks.
The integration provides grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve logic via customizable alert templates.

> You must have the [role of Admin][user-and-team-management] to be able to create integrations in Grafana OnCall.

## Configuring Grafana OnCall to Receive Alerts from ElastAlert

1. In the **Integrations** tab, click **+ New integration**.
2. Select **ElastAlert** from the list of available integrations.
3. Enter a name and description for the integration, click **Create**
4. A new page will open with the integration details. Copy the **OnCall Integration URL** from **HTTP Endpoint** section.

## Configuring ElastAlert to Send Alerts to Grafana OnCall

To send an alert from ElastAlert to a webhook, follow these steps:

> Refer to [ElastAlert http-post docs](https://elastalert.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ruletypes.html#http-post) for more details

1. Open your ElastAlert configuration file (e.g., `config.yaml`).
2. Locate the `alert` section.
3. Add the following configuration for the webhook alert:

  ```yaml
  alert: post
  http_post_url: "http://example.com/api"
  http_post_static_payload:
    title: abc123
  ```

  Replace `"abc123"` with a suitable name for your alert, and `"http://example.com/api"` with **OnCall Integration URL**.
4. Save the configuration file.

After configuring the webhook, ElastAlert will send alerts to the specified endpoint when triggered.
Make sure your webhook endpoint is configured to receive and process the incoming alerts.

## Grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve

Grafana OnCall provides grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve logic for the ElastAlert integration:

- Alerts created from ticket events are grouped by ticket ID
- Alert groups are auto-acknowledged when the ticket status is set to "Pending"
- Alert groups are auto-resolved when the ticket status is set to "Solved"

To customize this behaviour, consider modifying alert templates in integration settings.

### Configuring Elastalert to send heartbeats to Grafana OnCall Heartbeat

Add the following rule to ElastAlert

```yaml
    index: elastalert_status
    type: any
    alert: post
    http_post_url: {{ heartbeat_url }}
    realert:
        minutes: 1
    alert_text: elastalert is still running
    alert_text_type: alert_text_only
```

{{% docs/reference %}}
[user-and-team-management]: "/docs/oncall/ -> /docs/oncall/<ONCALL VERSION>/user-and-team-management"
[user-and-team-management]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/oncall/user-and-team-management"
{{% /docs/reference %}}
