dev/README.md, before:

# Developer quickstart

- [Running the project](#running-the-project)
  - [`COMPOSE_PROFILES`](#compose_profiles)
  - [`GRAFANA_IMAGE`](#grafana_image)
  - [Configuring Grafana](#configuring-grafana)
  - [Enabling RBAC for OnCall for local development](#enabling-rbac-for-oncall-for-local-development)
  - [Django Silk Profiling](#django-silk-profiling)
  - [Running backend services outside Docker](#running-backend-services-outside-docker)
- [UI Integration Tests](#ui-integration-tests)
- [Useful `make` commands](#useful-make-commands)
- [Setting environment variables](#setting-environment-variables)
- [Slack application setup](#slack-application-setup)
- [Update drone build](#update-drone-build)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
  - [ld: library not found for -lssl](#ld-library-not-found-for--lssl)
  - [Could not build wheels for cryptography which use PEP 517 and cannot be installed directly](#could-not-build-wheels-for-cryptography-which-use-pep-517-and-cannot-be-installed-directly)
  - [django.db.utils.OperationalError: (1366, "Incorrect string value")](#djangodbutilsoperationalerror-1366-incorrect-string-value)
  - [/bin/sh: line 0: cd: grafana-plugin: No such file or directory](#binsh-line-0-cd-grafana-plugin-no-such-file-or-directory)
  - [Encountered error while trying to install package - grpcio](#encountered-error-while-trying-to-install-package---grpcio)
  - [distutils.errors.CompileError: command '/usr/bin/clang' failed with exit code 1](#distutilserrorscompileerror-command-usrbinclang-failed-with-exit-code-1)
  - [symbol not found in flat namespace '\_EVP_DigestSignUpdate'](#symbol-not-found-in-flat-namespace-_evp_digestsignupdate)
- [IDE Specific Instructions](#ide-specific-instructions)
  - [PyCharm](#pycharm)
- [How to write database migrations](#how-to-write-database-migrations)

Related: [How to develop integrations](/engine/config_integrations/README.md)

## Running the project

By default everything runs inside Docker. These options can be modified via the [`COMPOSE_PROFILES`](#compose_profiles)
environment variable.

1. Firstly, ensure that you have `docker` [installed](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and running on your machine.
   **NOTE**: the `docker-compose-developer.yml` file uses some syntax/features that are only supported by Docker Compose
   v2. For instructions on how to enable this (if you haven't already done so),
   see [here](https://www.docker.com/blog/announcing-compose-v2-general-availability/). Ensure you have Docker Compose
   version 2.10 or above installed - update instructions are [here](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/linux/).
2. Run `make init start`. By default this will run everything in Docker, using SQLite as the database and Redis as the
   message broker/cache. See [`COMPOSE_PROFILES`](#compose_profiles) below for more details on how to swap
   out/disable which components are run in Docker.
3. Open Grafana in a browser [here](http://localhost:3000/plugins/grafana-oncall-app) (login: `oncall`, password: `oncall`).
4. You should now see the OnCall plugin configuration page. You may safely ignore the warning about the invalid
   plugin signature. Set "OnCall backend URL" as "http://host.docker.internal:8080". When opening the main plugin page,
   you may also ignore warnings about version mismatch and lack of communication channels.
5. Enjoy! Check our [OSS docs](https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/open-source/) if you want to set up Slack,
   Telegram, Twilio or SMS/calls through Grafana Cloud.
6. (Optional) Install `pre-commit` hooks by running `make install-precommit-hook`

**Note**: on subsequent startups you can simply run `make start`, this is a bit faster because it skips the frontend
build step.

### `COMPOSE_PROFILES`

This configuration option represents a comma-separated list of [`docker-compose` profiles](https://docs.docker.com/compose/profiles/).
It allows you to swap-out, or disable, certain components in Docker.

This option can be configured in two ways:

1. Setting a `COMPOSE_PROFILES` environment variable in `dev/.env.dev`. This allows you to avoid having to set
   `COMPOSE_PROFILES` for each `make` command you execute afterwards.
2. Passing in a `COMPOSE_PROFILES` argument when running `make` commands. For example:

```bash
make start COMPOSE_PROFILES=postgres,engine,grafana,rabbitmq
```

The possible profiles values are:

- `grafana`
- `engine`
- `oncall_ui`
- `redis`
- `rabbitmq`
- `postgres`
- `mysql`

The default is `engine,oncall_ui,redis,grafana`. This runs:

- all OnCall components (using SQLite as the database)
- Redis as the Celery message broker/cache
- a Grafana container

### `GRAFANA_IMAGE`

If you would like to change the image or version of Grafana being run, simply pass in a `GRAFANA_IMAGE` environment variable
to `make start` (or alternatively set it in your root `.env` file). The value of this environment variable should be a
valid `grafana` image/tag combination (ex. `grafana:main` or `grafana-enterprise:latest`).

### Configuring Grafana

This section is applicable for when you are running a Grafana container inside of `docker-compose` and you would like
to modify your Grafana instance's provisioning configuration.

The following commands assume you run them from the root of the project:

```bash
touch ./dev/grafana.dev.ini
# make desired changes to ./dev/grafana.dev.ini then run
touch .env && ./dev/add_env_var.sh GRAFANA_DEV_PROVISIONING ./dev/grafana.dev.ini .env
```

For example, if you would like to enable the `topnav` feature toggle, you can modify your `./dev/grafana.dev.ini` as
such:

```ini
[feature_toggles]
enable = top_nav
```

The next time you start the project via `docker-compose`, the `grafana` container will have `./dev/grafana.dev.ini`
volume mounted inside the container.

### Enabling RBAC for OnCall for local development

To run the project locally w/ RBAC for OnCall enabled, you will first need to run a `grafana-enterprise` container,
instead of a `grafana` container. See the instructions [here](#grafana_image) on how to do so.

Next, you will need to follow the steps [here](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/enterprise-licensing/)
on setting up/downloading a Grafana Enterprise license.

Lastly, you will need to modify the instance's configuration. Follow the instructions [here](#configuring-grafana) on
how to do so. You can modify your configuration file (`./dev/grafana.dev.ini`) as such:

```ini
[rbac]
enabled = true

[feature_toggles]
enable = accessControlOnCall

[server]
root_url = https://<your-stack-slug>.grafana.net/

[enterprise]
license_text = <content-of-the-license-jwt-that-you-downloaded>
```

(_Note_: you may need to restart your `grafana` container after modifying its configuration)

### Django Silk Profiling

In order to setup [`django-silk`](https://github.com/jazzband/django-silk) for local profiling, perform the following
steps:

1. `make backend-debug-enable`
2. `make engine-manage CMD="createsuperuser"` - follow CLI prompts to create a Django superuser
3. Visit <http://localhost:8080/django-admin> and login using the credentials you created in step #2

You should now be able to visit <http://localhost:8080/silk/> and see the Django Silk UI.
See the `django-silk` documentation [here](https://github.com/jazzband/django-silk) for more information.

### Running backend services outside Docker

By default everything runs inside Docker. If you would like to run the backend services outside of Docker
(for integrating w/ PyCharm for example), follow these instructions:

1. Create a Python 3.11 virtual environment using a method of your choosing (ex.
   [venv](https://docs.python.org/3.11/library/venv.html) or [pyenv-virtualenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-virtualenv)).
   Make sure the virtualenv is "activated".
2. `postgres` is a dependency on some of our Python dependencies (notably `psycopg2`
   ([docs](https://www.psycopg.org/docs/install.html#prerequisites))). Please visit
   [here](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) for installation instructions.
3. `make backend-bootstrap` - installs all backend dependencies
4. Modify your `.env.dev` by copying the contents of one of `.env.mysql.dev`, `.env.postgres.dev`,
   or `.env.sqlite.dev` into `.env.dev` (you should exclude the `GF_` prefixed environment variables).

   > In most cases where you are running stateful services via `docker-compose`, and backend services outside of
   > docker, you will simply need to change the database host to `localhost` (or in the case of `sqlite` update
   > the file-path to your `sqlite` database file). You will need to change the broker host to `localhost` as well.

5. `make backend-migrate` - runs necessary database migrations
6. Open two separate shells and then run the following:

- `make run-backend-server` - runs the HTTP server
- `make run-backend-celery` - runs Celery workers

## UI Integration Tests

We've developed a suite of "end-to-end" integration tests using [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/). These tests
are run on pull request CI builds. New features should ideally include a new/modified integration test.

To run these tests locally simply do the following:

```bash
npx playwright install  # install playwright dependencies
cp ./grafana-plugin/.env.example ./grafana-plugin/.env
# you may need to tweak the values in ./grafana-plugin/.env according to your local setup
cd grafana-plugin
yarn test:integration
```

## Useful `make` commands

> 🚶‍This part was moved to `make help` command. Run it to see all the available commands and their descriptions

## Setting environment variables

If you need to override any additional environment variables, you should set these in a root `.env.dev` file.
This file is automatically picked up by the OnCall engine Docker containers. This file is ignored from source control
and also overrides any defaults that are set in other `.env*` files

## Slack application setup

For Slack app configuration check our docs: <https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/open-source/#slack-setup>

## Update drone build

The `.drone.yml` build file must be signed when changes are made to it. Follow these steps:

If you have not installed drone CLI follow [these instructions](https://docs.drone.io/cli/install/)

To sign the `.drone.yml` file:

```bash
export DRONE_SERVER=https://drone.grafana.net

# Get your drone token from https://drone.grafana.net/account
export DRONE_TOKEN=<Your DRONE_TOKEN>

drone sign --save grafana/oncall .drone.yml
```

## Troubleshooting

### ld: library not found for -lssl

**Problem:**

```bash
make backend-bootstrap
...
    ld: library not found for -lssl
    clang: error: linker command failed with exit code 1 (use -v to see invocation)
    error: command 'gcc' failed with exit status 1
...
```

**Solution:**

```bash
export LDFLAGS=-L/usr/local/opt/openssl/lib
make backend-bootstrap
```

### Could not build wheels for cryptography which use PEP 517 and cannot be installed directly

Happens on Apple Silicon

**Problem:**

```bash
build/temp.macosx-12-arm64-3.9/_openssl.c:575:10: fatal error: 'openssl/opensslv.h' file not found
#include <openssl/opensslv.h>
          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1 error generated.
error: command '/usr/bin/clang' failed with exit code 1
----------------------------------------
ERROR: Failed building wheel for cryptography
```

**Solution:**

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

```bash
LDFLAGS="-L$(brew --prefix openssl@1.1)/lib" CFLAGS="-I$(brew --prefix openssl@1.1)/include" pip install `cat engine/requirements.txt | grep cryptography`
```

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013 -->

### django.db.utils.OperationalError: (1366, "Incorrect string value")

**Problem:**

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

```bash
django.db.utils.OperationalError: (1366, "Incorrect string value: '\\xF0\\x9F\\x98\\x8A\\xF0\\x9F...' for column 'cached_name' at row 1")
```

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013 -->

**Solution:**

Recreate the database with the correct encoding.

### /bin/sh: line 0: cd: grafana-plugin: No such file or directory

**Problem:**

When running `make init`:

```bash
/bin/sh: line 0: cd: grafana-plugin: No such file or directory
make: *** [init] Error 1
```

This arises when the environment variable `[CDPATH](https://www.theunixschool.com/2012/04/what-is-cdpath.html)` is
set _and_ when the current path (`.`) is not explicitly part of `CDPATH`.

**Solution:**

Either make `.` part of `CDPATH` in your .rc file setup, or temporarily override the variable when running `make` commands:

```bash
$ CDPATH="." make init
# Setting CDPATH to empty seems to also work - only tested on zsh, YMMV
$ CDPATH="" make init
```

**Problem:**

When running `make init start`:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

```bash
Error response from daemon: open /var/lib/docker/overlay2/ac57b871108ee1b98ff4455e36d2175eae90cbc7d4c9a54608c0b45cfb7c6da5/committed: is a directory
make: *** [start] Error 1
```

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013 -->

**Solution:**
clear everything in docker by resetting or:

```bash
make cleanup
```

### Encountered error while trying to install package - grpcio

**Problem:**

We are currently using a library, `fcm-django`, which has a dependency on `grpcio`. Google does not provide `grpcio`
wheels built for Apple Silicon Macs. The best solution so far has been to use a `conda` virtualenv. There's apparently
a lot of community work put into making packages play well with M1/arm64 architecture.

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
...
   note: This error originates from a subprocess, and is likely not a problem with pip.
error: legacy-install-failure

× Encountered error while trying to install package.
╰─> grpcio
...
```

**Solution:**

Use a `conda` virtualenv, and then run the following when installing the engine dependencies/
[See here for more details](https://stackoverflow.com/a/74307636/3902555)

```bash
GRPC_PYTHON_BUILD_SYSTEM_OPENSSL=1 GRPC_PYTHON_BUILD_SYSTEM_ZLIB=1 pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### distutils.errors.CompileError: command '/usr/bin/clang' failed with exit code 1

See solution for "Encountered error while trying to install package - grpcio" [here](#encountered-error-while-trying-to-install-package---grpcio)

### symbol not found in flat namespace '\_EVP_DigestSignUpdate'

**Problem:**

This problem seems to occur when running the Celery process, outside of `docker-compose`
(via `make run-backend-celery`), and using a `conda` virtual environment.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

```bash
conda create --name oncall-dev python=3.9.13
conda activate oncall-dev
make backend-bootstrap
make run-backend-celery
File "~/oncall/engine/engine/__init__.py", line 5, in <module>
    from .celery import app as celery_app
  File "~/oncall/engine/engine/celery.py", line 11, in <module>
    from opentelemetry.exporter.otlp.proto.grpc.trace_exporter import OTLPSpanExporter
  File "/opt/homebrew/Caskroom/miniconda/base/envs/oncall-dev/lib/python3.9/site-packages/opentelemetry/exporter/otlp/proto/grpc/trace_exporter/__init__.py", line 20, in <module>
    from grpc import ChannelCredentials, Compression
  File "/opt/homebrew/Caskroom/miniconda/base/envs/oncall-dev/lib/python3.9/site-packages/grpc/__init__.py", line 22, in <module>
    from grpc import _compression
  File "/opt/homebrew/Caskroom/miniconda/base/envs/oncall-dev/lib/python3.9/site-packages/grpc/_compression.py", line 20, in <module>
    from grpc._cython import cygrpc
ImportError: dlopen(/opt/homebrew/Caskroom/miniconda/base/envs/oncall-dev/lib/python3.9/site-packages/grpc/_cython/cygrpc.cpython-39-darwin.so, 0x0002): symbol not found in flat namespace '_EVP_DigestSignUpdate'
```

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013 -->

**Solution:**

[This solution](https://github.com/grpc/grpc/issues/15510#issuecomment-392012594) posted in a GitHub issue thread for
the `grpc/grpc` repository, fixes the issue:

```bash
conda install grpcio
make run-backend-celery
```

## IDE Specific Instructions

### PyCharm

1. Follow the instructions listed in ["Running backend services outside Docker"](#running-backend-services-outside-docker).
2. Open the project in PyCharm
3. Settings &rarr; Project OnCall
   - In Python Interpreter click the gear and create a new Virtualenv from existing environment selecting the
     venv created in Step 1.
   - In Project Structure make sure the project root is the content root and add /engine to Sources
4. Under Settings &rarr; Languages & Frameworks &rarr; Django
   - Enable Django support
   - Set Django project root to /engine
   - Set Settings to settings/dev.py
5. Create a new Django Server run configuration to Run/Debug the engine
   - Use a plugin such as EnvFile to load the .env.dev file
   - Change port from 8000 to 8080

## How to write database migrations

We use [django-migration-linter](https://github.com/3YOURMIND/django-migration-linter) to keep database migrations
backwards compatible

- we can automatically run migrations and they are zero-downtime, e.g. old code can work with the migrated database
- we can run and rollback migrations without worrying about data safety
- OnCall is deployed to the multiple environments core team is not able to control

See [django-migration-linter checklist](https://github.com/3YOURMIND/django-migration-linter/blob/main/docs/incompatibilities.md)
for the common mistakes and best practices

Commit message:

Add initial setup for local dev prometheus exporter

dev/README.md, after:

# Developer quickstart

- [Running the project](#running-the-project)
  - [`COMPOSE_PROFILES`](#compose_profiles)
  - [`GRAFANA_IMAGE`](#grafana_image)
  - [Configuring Grafana](#configuring-grafana)
  - [Enabling RBAC for OnCall for local development](#enabling-rbac-for-oncall-for-local-development)
  - [Django Silk Profiling](#django-silk-profiling)
  - [Running backend services outside Docker](#running-backend-services-outside-docker)
- [UI Integration Tests](#ui-integration-tests)
- [Useful `make` commands](#useful-make-commands)
- [Setting environment variables](#setting-environment-variables)
- [Slack application setup](#slack-application-setup)
- [Update drone build](#update-drone-build)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
  - [ld: library not found for -lssl](#ld-library-not-found-for--lssl)
  - [Could not build wheels for cryptography which use PEP 517 and cannot be installed directly](#could-not-build-wheels-for-cryptography-which-use-pep-517-and-cannot-be-installed-directly)
  - [django.db.utils.OperationalError: (1366, "Incorrect string value")](#djangodbutilsoperationalerror-1366-incorrect-string-value)
  - [/bin/sh: line 0: cd: grafana-plugin: No such file or directory](#binsh-line-0-cd-grafana-plugin-no-such-file-or-directory)
  - [Encountered error while trying to install package - grpcio](#encountered-error-while-trying-to-install-package---grpcio)
  - [distutils.errors.CompileError: command '/usr/bin/clang' failed with exit code 1](#distutilserrorscompileerror-command-usrbinclang-failed-with-exit-code-1)
  - [symbol not found in flat namespace '\_EVP_DigestSignUpdate'](#symbol-not-found-in-flat-namespace-_evp_digestsignupdate)
- [IDE Specific Instructions](#ide-specific-instructions)
  - [PyCharm](#pycharm)
- [How to write database migrations](#how-to-write-database-migrations)

Related: [How to develop integrations](/engine/config_integrations/README.md)

## Running the project

By default everything runs inside Docker. These options can be modified via the [`COMPOSE_PROFILES`](#compose_profiles)
environment variable.

1. Firstly, ensure that you have `docker` [installed](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and running on your machine.
   **NOTE**: the `docker-compose-developer.yml` file uses some syntax/features that are only supported by Docker Compose
   v2. For instructions on how to enable this (if you haven't already done so),
   see [here](https://www.docker.com/blog/announcing-compose-v2-general-availability/). Ensure you have Docker Compose
   version 2.10 or above installed - update instructions are [here](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/linux/).
2. Run `make init start`. By default this will run everything in Docker, using SQLite as the database and Redis as the
   message broker/cache. See [`COMPOSE_PROFILES`](#compose_profiles) below for more details on how to swap
   out/disable which components are run in Docker.
3. Open Grafana in a browser [here](http://localhost:3000/plugins/grafana-oncall-app) (login: `oncall`, password: `oncall`).
4. You should now see the OnCall plugin configuration page. You may safely ignore the warning about the invalid
   plugin signature. Set "OnCall backend URL" as "http://host.docker.internal:8080". When opening the main plugin page,
   you may also ignore warnings about version mismatch and lack of communication channels.
5. Enjoy! Check our [OSS docs](https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/open-source/) if you want to set up Slack,
   Telegram, Twilio or SMS/calls through Grafana Cloud.
6. (Optional) Install `pre-commit` hooks by running `make install-precommit-hook`

**Note**: on subsequent startups you can simply run `make start`, this is a bit faster because it skips the frontend
build step.

### `COMPOSE_PROFILES`

This configuration option represents a comma-separated list of [`docker-compose` profiles](https://docs.docker.com/compose/profiles/).
It allows you to swap-out, or disable, certain components in Docker.

This option can be configured in two ways:

1. Setting a `COMPOSE_PROFILES` environment variable in `dev/.env.dev`. This allows you to avoid having to set
   `COMPOSE_PROFILES` for each `make` command you execute afterwards.
2. Passing in a `COMPOSE_PROFILES` argument when running `make` commands. For example:

```bash
make start COMPOSE_PROFILES=postgres,engine,grafana,rabbitmq
```

The possible profiles values are:

- `grafana`
- `prometheus`
- `engine`
- `oncall_ui`
- `redis`
- `rabbitmq`
- `postgres`
- `mysql`

The default is `engine,oncall_ui,redis,grafana`. This runs:

- all OnCall components (using SQLite as the database)
- Redis as the Celery message broker/cache
- a Grafana container

### `GRAFANA_IMAGE`

If you would like to change the image or version of Grafana being run, simply pass in a `GRAFANA_IMAGE` environment variable
to `make start` (or alternatively set it in your root `.env` file). The value of this environment variable should be a
valid `grafana` image/tag combination (ex. `grafana:main` or `grafana-enterprise:latest`).

### Configuring Grafana

This section is applicable for when you are running a Grafana container inside of `docker-compose` and you would like
to modify your Grafana instance's provisioning configuration.

The following commands assume you run them from the root of the project:

```bash
touch ./dev/grafana.dev.ini
# make desired changes to ./dev/grafana.dev.ini then run
touch .env && ./dev/add_env_var.sh GRAFANA_DEV_PROVISIONING ./dev/grafana.dev.ini .env
```

For example, if you would like to enable the `topnav` feature toggle, you can modify your `./dev/grafana.dev.ini` as
such:

```ini
[feature_toggles]
enable = top_nav
```

The next time you start the project via `docker-compose`, the `grafana` container will have `./dev/grafana.dev.ini`
volume mounted inside the container.

### Enabling RBAC for OnCall for local development

To run the project locally w/ RBAC for OnCall enabled, you will first need to run a `grafana-enterprise` container,
instead of a `grafana` container. See the instructions [here](#grafana_image) on how to do so.

Next, you will need to follow the steps [here](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/enterprise-licensing/)
on setting up/downloading a Grafana Enterprise license.

Lastly, you will need to modify the instance's configuration. Follow the instructions [here](#configuring-grafana) on
how to do so. You can modify your configuration file (`./dev/grafana.dev.ini`) as such:

```ini
[rbac]
enabled = true

[feature_toggles]
enable = accessControlOnCall

[server]
root_url = https://<your-stack-slug>.grafana.net/

[enterprise]
license_text = <content-of-the-license-jwt-that-you-downloaded>
```

(_Note_: you may need to restart your `grafana` container after modifying its configuration)

### Enabling OnCall prometheus exporter for local development

Add `prometheus` to your `COMPOSE_PROFILES` and set `FEATURE_PROMETHEUS_EXPORTER_ENABLED=True` in your
`dev/.env.dev` file. You may need to restart your `grafana` container to make sure the new datasource
is added (or add it manually using the UI; Prometheus will be running in `host.docker.internal:9090`
by default, using default settings).

### Django Silk Profiling

In order to setup [`django-silk`](https://github.com/jazzband/django-silk) for local profiling, perform the following
steps:

1. `make backend-debug-enable`
2. `make engine-manage CMD="createsuperuser"` - follow CLI prompts to create a Django superuser
3. Visit <http://localhost:8080/django-admin> and login using the credentials you created in step #2

You should now be able to visit <http://localhost:8080/silk/> and see the Django Silk UI.
See the `django-silk` documentation [here](https://github.com/jazzband/django-silk) for more information.

### Running backend services outside Docker

By default everything runs inside Docker. If you would like to run the backend services outside of Docker
(for integrating w/ PyCharm for example), follow these instructions:

1. Create a Python 3.11 virtual environment using a method of your choosing (ex.
   [venv](https://docs.python.org/3.11/library/venv.html) or [pyenv-virtualenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-virtualenv)).
   Make sure the virtualenv is "activated".
2. `postgres` is a dependency on some of our Python dependencies (notably `psycopg2`
   ([docs](https://www.psycopg.org/docs/install.html#prerequisites))). Please visit
   [here](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) for installation instructions.
3. `make backend-bootstrap` - installs all backend dependencies
4. Modify your `.env.dev` by copying the contents of one of `.env.mysql.dev`, `.env.postgres.dev`,
   or `.env.sqlite.dev` into `.env.dev` (you should exclude the `GF_` prefixed environment variables).

   > In most cases where you are running stateful services via `docker-compose`, and backend services outside of
   > docker, you will simply need to change the database host to `localhost` (or in the case of `sqlite` update
   > the file-path to your `sqlite` database file). You will need to change the broker host to `localhost` as well.

5. `make backend-migrate` - runs necessary database migrations
6. Open two separate shells and then run the following:

- `make run-backend-server` - runs the HTTP server
- `make run-backend-celery` - runs Celery workers

## UI Integration Tests

We've developed a suite of "end-to-end" integration tests using [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/). These tests
are run on pull request CI builds. New features should ideally include a new/modified integration test.

To run these tests locally simply do the following:

```bash
npx playwright install  # install playwright dependencies
cp ./grafana-plugin/.env.example ./grafana-plugin/.env
# you may need to tweak the values in ./grafana-plugin/.env according to your local setup
cd grafana-plugin
yarn test:integration
```

## Useful `make` commands

> 🚶‍This part was moved to `make help` command. Run it to see all the available commands and their descriptions

## Setting environment variables

If you need to override any additional environment variables, you should set these in a root `.env.dev` file.
This file is automatically picked up by the OnCall engine Docker containers. This file is ignored from source control
and also overrides any defaults that are set in other `.env*` files

## Slack application setup

For Slack app configuration check our docs: <https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/open-source/#slack-setup>

## Update drone build

The `.drone.yml` build file must be signed when changes are made to it. Follow these steps:

If you have not installed drone CLI follow [these instructions](https://docs.drone.io/cli/install/)

To sign the `.drone.yml` file:

```bash
export DRONE_SERVER=https://drone.grafana.net

# Get your drone token from https://drone.grafana.net/account
export DRONE_TOKEN=<Your DRONE_TOKEN>

drone sign --save grafana/oncall .drone.yml
```

## Troubleshooting

### ld: library not found for -lssl

**Problem:**

```bash
make backend-bootstrap
...
    ld: library not found for -lssl
    clang: error: linker command failed with exit code 1 (use -v to see invocation)
    error: command 'gcc' failed with exit status 1
...
```

**Solution:**

```bash
export LDFLAGS=-L/usr/local/opt/openssl/lib
make backend-bootstrap
```

### Could not build wheels for cryptography which use PEP 517 and cannot be installed directly

Happens on Apple Silicon

**Problem:**

```bash
build/temp.macosx-12-arm64-3.9/_openssl.c:575:10: fatal error: 'openssl/opensslv.h' file not found
#include <openssl/opensslv.h>
          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1 error generated.
error: command '/usr/bin/clang' failed with exit code 1
----------------------------------------
ERROR: Failed building wheel for cryptography
```

**Solution:**

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

```bash
LDFLAGS="-L$(brew --prefix openssl@1.1)/lib" CFLAGS="-I$(brew --prefix openssl@1.1)/include" pip install `cat engine/requirements.txt | grep cryptography`
```

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013 -->

### django.db.utils.OperationalError: (1366, "Incorrect string value")

**Problem:**

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

```bash
django.db.utils.OperationalError: (1366, "Incorrect string value: '\\xF0\\x9F\\x98\\x8A\\xF0\\x9F...' for column 'cached_name' at row 1")
```

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013 -->

**Solution:**

Recreate the database with the correct encoding.

### /bin/sh: line 0: cd: grafana-plugin: No such file or directory

**Problem:**

When running `make init`:

```bash
/bin/sh: line 0: cd: grafana-plugin: No such file or directory
make: *** [init] Error 1
```

This arises when the environment variable `[CDPATH](https://www.theunixschool.com/2012/04/what-is-cdpath.html)` is
set _and_ when the current path (`.`) is not explicitly part of `CDPATH`.

**Solution:**

Either make `.` part of `CDPATH` in your .rc file setup, or temporarily override the variable when running `make` commands:

```bash
$ CDPATH="." make init
# Setting CDPATH to empty seems to also work - only tested on zsh, YMMV
$ CDPATH="" make init
```

**Problem:**

When running `make init start`:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

```bash
Error response from daemon: open /var/lib/docker/overlay2/ac57b871108ee1b98ff4455e36d2175eae90cbc7d4c9a54608c0b45cfb7c6da5/committed: is a directory
make: *** [start] Error 1
```

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013 -->

**Solution:**
clear everything in docker by resetting or:

```bash
make cleanup
```

### Encountered error while trying to install package - grpcio

**Problem:**

We are currently using a library, `fcm-django`, which has a dependency on `grpcio`. Google does not provide `grpcio`
wheels built for Apple Silicon Macs. The best solution so far has been to use a `conda` virtualenv. There's apparently
a lot of community work put into making packages play well with M1/arm64 architecture.

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
...
   note: This error originates from a subprocess, and is likely not a problem with pip.
error: legacy-install-failure

× Encountered error while trying to install package.
╰─> grpcio
...
```

**Solution:**

Use a `conda` virtualenv, and then run the following when installing the engine dependencies/
[See here for more details](https://stackoverflow.com/a/74307636/3902555)

```bash
GRPC_PYTHON_BUILD_SYSTEM_OPENSSL=1 GRPC_PYTHON_BUILD_SYSTEM_ZLIB=1 pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### distutils.errors.CompileError: command '/usr/bin/clang' failed with exit code 1

See solution for "Encountered error while trying to install package - grpcio" [here](#encountered-error-while-trying-to-install-package---grpcio)

### symbol not found in flat namespace '\_EVP_DigestSignUpdate'

**Problem:**

This problem seems to occur when running the Celery process, outside of `docker-compose`
(via `make run-backend-celery`), and using a `conda` virtual environment.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

```bash
conda create --name oncall-dev python=3.9.13
conda activate oncall-dev
make backend-bootstrap
make run-backend-celery
File "~/oncall/engine/engine/__init__.py", line 5, in <module>
    from .celery import app as celery_app
  File "~/oncall/engine/engine/celery.py", line 11, in <module>
    from opentelemetry.exporter.otlp.proto.grpc.trace_exporter import OTLPSpanExporter
  File "/opt/homebrew/Caskroom/miniconda/base/envs/oncall-dev/lib/python3.9/site-packages/opentelemetry/exporter/otlp/proto/grpc/trace_exporter/__init__.py", line 20, in <module>
    from grpc import ChannelCredentials, Compression
  File "/opt/homebrew/Caskroom/miniconda/base/envs/oncall-dev/lib/python3.9/site-packages/grpc/__init__.py", line 22, in <module>
    from grpc import _compression
  File "/opt/homebrew/Caskroom/miniconda/base/envs/oncall-dev/lib/python3.9/site-packages/grpc/_compression.py", line 20, in <module>
    from grpc._cython import cygrpc
ImportError: dlopen(/opt/homebrew/Caskroom/miniconda/base/envs/oncall-dev/lib/python3.9/site-packages/grpc/_cython/cygrpc.cpython-39-darwin.so, 0x0002): symbol not found in flat namespace '_EVP_DigestSignUpdate'
```

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013 -->

**Solution:**

[This solution](https://github.com/grpc/grpc/issues/15510#issuecomment-392012594) posted in a GitHub issue thread for
the `grpc/grpc` repository, fixes the issue:

```bash
conda install grpcio
make run-backend-celery
```

## IDE Specific Instructions

### PyCharm

1. Follow the instructions listed in ["Running backend services outside Docker"](#running-backend-services-outside-docker).
2. Open the project in PyCharm
3. Settings &rarr; Project OnCall
   - In Python Interpreter click the gear and create a new Virtualenv from existing environment selecting the
     venv created in Step 1.
   - In Project Structure make sure the project root is the content root and add /engine to Sources
4. Under Settings &rarr; Languages & Frameworks &rarr; Django
   - Enable Django support
   - Set Django project root to /engine
   - Set Settings to settings/dev.py
5. Create a new Django Server run configuration to Run/Debug the engine
   - Use a plugin such as EnvFile to load the .env.dev file
   - Change port from 8000 to 8080

## How to write database migrations

We use [django-migration-linter](https://github.com/3YOURMIND/django-migration-linter) to keep database migrations
backwards compatible

- we can automatically run migrations and they are zero-downtime, e.g. old code can work with the migrated database
- we can run and rollback migrations without worrying about data safety
- OnCall is deployed to the multiple environments core team is not able to control

See [django-migration-linter checklist](https://github.com/3YOURMIND/django-migration-linter/blob/main/docs/incompatibilities.md)
for the common mistakes and best practices
