docs/sources/integrations/appdynamics/index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - add-appdynamics/
  - /docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-appdynamics/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-appdynamics/
keywords:
  - Grafana Cloud
  - Alerts
  - Notifications
  - on-call
  - AppDynamics
title: AppDynamics
weight: 500
---

# AppDynamics integration for Grafana OnCall

The AppDynamics integration for Grafana OnCall handles health rule violation events sent from AppDynamics actions.
The integration provides grouping and auto-resolve logic via customizable alert templates.

> You must have the [role of Admin]({{< relref "user-and-team-management" >}}) to be able to create integrations in Grafana OnCall.

## Configuring Grafana OnCall to Receive Alerts from AppDynamics

1. In the **Integrations** tab, click **+ New integration**.
2. Select **AppDynamics** from the list of available integrations.
3. Enter a name and description for the integration, click **Create**
4. A new page will open with the integration details. Copy the **OnCall Integration URL** from **HTTP Endpoint** section.
You will need it when configuring AppDynamics.

## Configuring AppDynamics to Send Alerts to Grafana OnCall

Create a new HTTP Request Template in AppDynamics to send events to Grafana OnCall using the integration URL above.

Refer to
[AppDynamics documentation]
(<https://docs.appdynamics.com/appd/23.x/latest/en/appdynamics-essentials/alert-and-respond/actions/http-request-actions-and-templates>)
for more information on **how to create HTTP Request Templates**:

Use the following values when configuring a new HTTP Request Template:

* Request URL:
  * Method: POST
  * Raw URL: **OnCall Integration URL** from previous section
* Authentication:
  * Type: None
* Payload:
  * MIME Type: application/json
  * Template:

  ```json
  {
    "event": {
      "eventType": "${latestEvent.eventType}",
      "id": "${latestEvent.id}",
      "guid": "${latestEvent.guid}",
      "eventTypeKey": "${latestEvent.eventTypeKey}",
      "eventTime": "${latestEvent.eventTime}",
      "displayName": "${latestEvent.displayName}",
      "summaryMessage": "${latestEvent.summaryMessage}",
      "eventMessage": "${latestEvent.eventMessage}",
      "application": {
        "name": "${latestEvent.application.name}"
      },
      "node": {
        "name": "${latestEvent.node.name}"
      },
      "severity": "${latestEvent.severity}",
      "deepLink": "${latestEvent.deepLink}"
    }
  }
  ```

* Response Handling Criteria:
  * Success Criteria: Status Code 200
* Settings:
  * One Request Per Event: Enabled

After setting up a template, create a new action in AppDynamics and select the template you created earlier.
Now you can configure policies to trigger the action when certain events occur in AppDynamics.
When configuring a policy, select the following events to trigger the action:

```plain
Health Rule Violation Started - Warning
Health Rule Violation Started - Critical
Health Rule Violation Continues - Warning
Health Rule Violation Continues - Critical
Health Rule Violation Upgraded - Warning to Critical
Health Rule Violation Downgraded - Critical to Warning
Health Rule Violation Ended - Warning
Health Rule Violation Ended - Critical
Health Rule Violation Canceled - Warning
Health Rule Violation Canceled - Critical
```

After setting up the connection, you can test it by sending a test request from the AppDynamics UI.

## Understanding How Alerts Grouped and Auto-resolved

Grafana OnCall provides grouping and auto-resolve logic for the AppDynamics integration:

* Alerts created from health rule violation events are grouped by application and node name
* Alert groups are auto-resolved when the health rule violation is ended or canceled

## Complete the Integration Configuration

Complete configuration by setting routes, templates, maintenances, etc. Read more in
[this section]({{< relref "../../integrations/#complete-the-integration-configuration" >}})

Commit message:

Update all links to use `docs/reference` style
The `docs/reference` shortcode supports contextual destinations and version inference.

`<ONCALL VERSION>` is inferred to match the version of the documentation set.
For example, the inferred version for the page /docs/grafana/oncall/latest/get-started/ is "latest".
It can also be overriden using front matter.
Given the same page, but with the additional front matter `oncall_version: next`, the variable is substituted with "next" rather than "latest".

This is used by the Grafana Cloud documentation to always link to the "next" version of OnCall documentation which is expected to match the code deployed in Grafana Cloud more closely than "latest".
If this is not correct, please let me know so I can make the appropriate changes in the website.

Contextual destinations are achieved using repeated labels in the shortcode inner text.
The format is [<LABEL>]: "<PAGE PATH PREFIX> -> <HUGO REFERENCE>".

- _`<LABEL>`_ matches the reference style link label used in the rest of the text.
- _`<PAGE PATH PREFIX>`_ is matched against the page during the production build.
  If the match is successful, the destination that is used is _`<HUGO REFERENCE>`_.
  The first matching prefix is used, not the longest matching prefix.

Signed-off-by: Jack Baldry <jack.baldry@grafana.com>

docs/sources/integrations/appdynamics/index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - add-appdynamics/
  - /docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-appdynamics/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-appdynamics/
keywords:
  - Grafana Cloud
  - Alerts
  - Notifications
  - on-call
  - AppDynamics
title: AppDynamics
weight: 500
---

# AppDynamics integration for Grafana OnCall

The AppDynamics integration for Grafana OnCall handles health rule violation events sent from AppDynamics actions.
The integration provides grouping and auto-resolve logic via customizable alert templates.

> You must have the [role of Admin][user-and-team-management] to be able to create integrations in Grafana OnCall.

## Configuring Grafana OnCall to Receive Alerts from AppDynamics

1. In the **Integrations** tab, click **+ New integration**.
2. Select **AppDynamics** from the list of available integrations.
3. Enter a name and description for the integration, click **Create**
4. A new page will open with the integration details. Copy the **OnCall Integration URL** from **HTTP Endpoint** section.
You will need it when configuring AppDynamics.

## Configuring AppDynamics to Send Alerts to Grafana OnCall

Create a new HTTP Request Template in AppDynamics to send events to Grafana OnCall using the integration URL above.

Refer to
[AppDynamics documentation]
(<https://docs.appdynamics.com/appd/23.x/latest/en/appdynamics-essentials/alert-and-respond/actions/http-request-actions-and-templates>)
for more information on **how to create HTTP Request Templates**:

Use the following values when configuring a new HTTP Request Template:

* Request URL:
  * Method: POST
  * Raw URL: **OnCall Integration URL** from previous section
* Authentication:
  * Type: None
* Payload:
  * MIME Type: application/json
  * Template:

  ```json
  {
    "event": {
      "eventType": "${latestEvent.eventType}",
      "id": "${latestEvent.id}",
      "guid": "${latestEvent.guid}",
      "eventTypeKey": "${latestEvent.eventTypeKey}",
      "eventTime": "${latestEvent.eventTime}",
      "displayName": "${latestEvent.displayName}",
      "summaryMessage": "${latestEvent.summaryMessage}",
      "eventMessage": "${latestEvent.eventMessage}",
      "application": {
        "name": "${latestEvent.application.name}"
      },
      "node": {
        "name": "${latestEvent.node.name}"
      },
      "severity": "${latestEvent.severity}",
      "deepLink": "${latestEvent.deepLink}"
    }
  }
  ```

* Response Handling Criteria:
  * Success Criteria: Status Code 200
* Settings:
  * One Request Per Event: Enabled

After setting up a template, create a new action in AppDynamics and select the template you created earlier.
Now you can configure policies to trigger the action when certain events occur in AppDynamics.
When configuring a policy, select the following events to trigger the action:

```plain
Health Rule Violation Started - Warning
Health Rule Violation Started - Critical
Health Rule Violation Continues - Warning
Health Rule Violation Continues - Critical
Health Rule Violation Upgraded - Warning to Critical
Health Rule Violation Downgraded - Critical to Warning
Health Rule Violation Ended - Warning
Health Rule Violation Ended - Critical
Health Rule Violation Canceled - Warning
Health Rule Violation Canceled - Critical
```

After setting up the connection, you can test it by sending a test request from the AppDynamics UI.

## Understanding How Alerts Grouped and Auto-resolved

Grafana OnCall provides grouping and auto-resolve logic for the AppDynamics integration:

* Alerts created from health rule violation events are grouped by application and node name
* Alert groups are auto-resolved when the health rule violation is ended or canceled

## Complete the Integration Configuration

Complete configuration by setting routes, templates, maintenances, etc. Read more in
[this section][complete-the-integration-configuration]

{{% docs/reference %}}
[complete-the-integration-configuration]: "/docs/oncall/ -> /docs/oncall/<ONCALL VERSION>/integrations#complete-the-integration-configuration"
[complete-the-integration-configuration]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/oncall/<ONCALL VERSION>/integrations#complete-the-integration-configuration"

[user-and-team-management]: "/docs/oncall/ -> /docs/oncall/<ONCALL VERSION>/user-and-team-management"
[user-and-team-management]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/oncall/<ONCALL VERSION>/user-and-team-management"
{{% /docs/reference %}}
