docs/sources/integrations/pingdom/index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - add-pingdom/
  - /docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-pingdom/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-pingdom/
keywords:
  - Grafana Cloud
  - Alerts
  - Notifications
  - on-call
  - pingdom
title: Pingdom
weight: 500
---

# Pingdom integration for Grafana OnCall

The Pingdom integration for Grafana OnCall handles ticket events sent from Pingdom webhooks.
The integration provides grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve logic via customizable alert templates.

> You must have the [role of Admin]({{< relref "user-and-team-management" >}}) to be able to create integrations in Grafana OnCall.

## Configuring Grafana OnCall to Receive Alerts from Pingdom

1. In the **Integrations** tab, click **+ New integration**.
2. Select **Pingdom** from the list of available integrations.
3. Enter a name and description for the integration, click **Create**
4. A new page will open with the integration details. Copy the **OnCall Integration URL** from **HTTP Endpoint** section.

## Configuring Pingdom to Send Alerts to Grafana OnCall

1. Go to <https://my.pingdom.com/integrations/settings>
2. Click "Add Integration".
3. Type: Webhook. Name: `Grafana OnCall`. URL: **OnCall Integration URL**
4. Go to "Reports" -> "Uptime" -> "Edit Check".
5. Select `Grafana OnCall` integration in the bottom.
6. Click "Modify Check" to save.

Commit message:

Update all links to use `docs/reference` style (#2456)
# What this PR does

The `docs/reference` shortcode supports contextual destinations and
version inference.

`<ONCALL VERSION>` is inferred to match the version of the documentation
set. For example, the inferred version for the page
/docs/grafana/oncall/latest/get-started/ is "latest". It can also be
overriden using front matter.
Given the same page, but with the additional front matter
`oncall_version: next`, the variable is substituted with "next" rather
than "latest".

Contextual destinations are achieved using repeated labels in the
shortcode inner text. The format is [<LABEL>]: "<PAGE PATH PREFIX> ->
<HUGO REFERENCE>".

- _`<LABEL>`_ matches the reference style link label used in the rest of
the text.
- _`<PAGE PATH PREFIX>`_ is matched against the page during the
production build. If the match is successful, the destination that is
used is _`<HUGO REFERENCE>`_. The first matching prefix is used, not the
longest matching prefix.

## Which issue(s) this PR fixes

- Broken links due to ambiguous relref resolution. Any relref parameter
that does not start with either `/`, `./`, or `../` can resolve
ambiguously and is resulting in broken link behavior on the current
site.
- Broken links in Grafana Cloud. We mount OnCall documentation in
Grafana Cloud. In https://github.com/grafana/website/pull/13872 the
location will become /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/oncall. This
PR is intended to be merged alongside that PR.

---------

Signed-off-by: Jack Baldry <jack.baldry@grafana.com>
Co-authored-by: Joey Orlando <joey.orlando@grafana.com>

docs/sources/integrations/pingdom/index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - add-pingdom/
  - /docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-pingdom/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-pingdom/
keywords:
  - Grafana Cloud
  - Alerts
  - Notifications
  - on-call
  - pingdom
title: Pingdom
weight: 500
---

# Pingdom integration for Grafana OnCall

The Pingdom integration for Grafana OnCall handles ticket events sent from Pingdom webhooks.
The integration provides grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve logic via customizable alert templates.

> You must have the [role of Admin][user-and-team-management] to be able to create integrations in Grafana OnCall.

## Configuring Grafana OnCall to Receive Alerts from Pingdom

1. In the **Integrations** tab, click **+ New integration**.
2. Select **Pingdom** from the list of available integrations.
3. Enter a name and description for the integration, click **Create**
4. A new page will open with the integration details. Copy the **OnCall Integration URL** from **HTTP Endpoint** section.

## Configuring Pingdom to Send Alerts to Grafana OnCall

1. Go to <https://my.pingdom.com/integrations/settings>
2. Click "Add Integration".
3. Type: Webhook. Name: `Grafana OnCall`. URL: **OnCall Integration URL**
4. Go to "Reports" -> "Uptime" -> "Edit Check".
5. Select `Grafana OnCall` integration in the bottom.
6. Click "Modify Check" to save.

{{% docs/reference %}}
[user-and-team-management]: "/docs/oncall/ -> /docs/oncall/<ONCALL VERSION>/user-and-team-management"
[user-and-team-management]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/oncall/user-and-team-management"
{{% /docs/reference %}}
