docs/sources/integrations/kapacitor/index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - add-kapacitor/
  - /docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-kapacitor/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-kapacitor/
keywords:
  - Grafana Cloud
  - Alerts
  - Notifications
  - on-call
  - kapacitor
title: Kapacitor
weight: 500
---

# Kapacitor integration for Grafana OnCall

The Kapacitor integration for Grafana OnCall handles ticket events sent from Kapacitor webhooks.
The integration provides grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve logic via customizable alert templates.

> You must have the [role of Admin]({{< relref "user-and-team-management" >}}) to be able to create integrations in Grafana OnCall.

## Configuring Grafana OnCall to Receive Alerts from Kapacitor

1. In the **Integrations** tab, click **+ New integration**.
2. Select **Kapacitor** from the list of available integrations.
3. Enter a name and description for the integration, click **Create**
4. A new page will open with the integration details. Copy the **OnCall Integration URL** from **HTTP Endpoint** section.

## Configuring Kapacitor to Send Alerts to Grafana OnCall

To send an alert from Kapacitor, you can follow these steps:

1. Create a Kapacitor TICKscript or modify an existing one to define the conditions for triggering the alert.
  The TICKscript specifies the data source, data processing, and the alert rule. Here's an example of a simple TICKscript:

  ```tickscript
  stream
      |from()
          .measurement('measurement_name')
          .where(lambda: <condition>)
      |alert()
          .webhook('<webhook_url>')
  ```

  Replace `'measurement_name'` with the name of the measurement you want to monitor, `<condition>`
  with the condition that triggers the alert, and `'<webhook_url>'` with **OnCall Integration URL**
2. Save the TICKscript file with a `.tick` extension, for example, `alert_script.tick`.
3. Start the Kapacitor service using the TICKscript:

  ```bash
  kapacitor define <alert_name> -tick /path/to/alert_script.tick
  kapacitor enable <alert_name>
  kapacitor reload
  ```

  Replace `<alert_name>` with a suitable name for your alert.
4. Ensure that the Kapacitor service is running and actively monitoring the data.
When the condition defined in the TICKscript is met, Kapacitor will trigger the alert and send
a POST request to the specified webhook URL with the necessary information. Make sure your webhook
endpoint is configured to receive and process the incoming alerts from Kapacitor.

Commit message:

Update all links to use `docs/reference` style (#2456)
# What this PR does

The `docs/reference` shortcode supports contextual destinations and
version inference.

`<ONCALL VERSION>` is inferred to match the version of the documentation
set. For example, the inferred version for the page
/docs/grafana/oncall/latest/get-started/ is "latest". It can also be
overriden using front matter.
Given the same page, but with the additional front matter
`oncall_version: next`, the variable is substituted with "next" rather
than "latest".

Contextual destinations are achieved using repeated labels in the
shortcode inner text. The format is [<LABEL>]: "<PAGE PATH PREFIX> ->
<HUGO REFERENCE>".

- _`<LABEL>`_ matches the reference style link label used in the rest of
the text.
- _`<PAGE PATH PREFIX>`_ is matched against the page during the
production build. If the match is successful, the destination that is
used is _`<HUGO REFERENCE>`_. The first matching prefix is used, not the
longest matching prefix.

## Which issue(s) this PR fixes

- Broken links due to ambiguous relref resolution. Any relref parameter
that does not start with either `/`, `./`, or `../` can resolve
ambiguously and is resulting in broken link behavior on the current
site.
- Broken links in Grafana Cloud. We mount OnCall documentation in
Grafana Cloud. In https://github.com/grafana/website/pull/13872 the
location will become /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/oncall. This
PR is intended to be merged alongside that PR.

---------

Signed-off-by: Jack Baldry <jack.baldry@grafana.com>
Co-authored-by: Joey Orlando <joey.orlando@grafana.com>

docs/sources/integrations/kapacitor/index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - add-kapacitor/
  - /docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-kapacitor/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-kapacitor/
keywords:
  - Grafana Cloud
  - Alerts
  - Notifications
  - on-call
  - kapacitor
title: Kapacitor
weight: 500
---

# Kapacitor integration for Grafana OnCall

The Kapacitor integration for Grafana OnCall handles ticket events sent from Kapacitor webhooks.
The integration provides grouping, auto-acknowledge and auto-resolve logic via customizable alert templates.

> You must have the [role of Admin][user-and-team-management] to be able to create integrations in Grafana OnCall.

## Configuring Grafana OnCall to Receive Alerts from Kapacitor

1. In the **Integrations** tab, click **+ New integration**.
2. Select **Kapacitor** from the list of available integrations.
3. Enter a name and description for the integration, click **Create**
4. A new page will open with the integration details. Copy the **OnCall Integration URL** from **HTTP Endpoint** section.

## Configuring Kapacitor to Send Alerts to Grafana OnCall

To send an alert from Kapacitor, you can follow these steps:

1. Create a Kapacitor TICKscript or modify an existing one to define the conditions for triggering the alert.
  The TICKscript specifies the data source, data processing, and the alert rule. Here's an example of a simple TICKscript:

  ```tickscript
  stream
      |from()
          .measurement('measurement_name')
          .where(lambda: <condition>)
      |alert()
          .webhook('<webhook_url>')
  ```

  Replace `'measurement_name'` with the name of the measurement you want to monitor, `<condition>`
  with the condition that triggers the alert, and `'<webhook_url>'` with **OnCall Integration URL**
2. Save the TICKscript file with a `.tick` extension, for example, `alert_script.tick`.
3. Start the Kapacitor service using the TICKscript:

  ```bash
  kapacitor define <alert_name> -tick /path/to/alert_script.tick
  kapacitor enable <alert_name>
  kapacitor reload
  ```

  Replace `<alert_name>` with a suitable name for your alert.
4. Ensure that the Kapacitor service is running and actively monitoring the data.
When the condition defined in the TICKscript is met, Kapacitor will trigger the alert and send
a POST request to the specified webhook URL with the necessary information. Make sure your webhook
endpoint is configured to receive and process the incoming alerts from Kapacitor.

{{% docs/reference %}}
[user-and-team-management]: "/docs/oncall/ -> /docs/oncall/<ONCALL VERSION>/user-and-team-management"
[user-and-team-management]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/oncall/user-and-team-management"
{{% /docs/reference %}}
