helm/README.md, before:

# How to run the chart locally

1. Create the cluster with [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/#installation)

   > Make sure ports 30001 and 30002 are free on your machine

   ```bash
   kind create cluster --image kindest/node:v1.24.7 --config kind.yml
   ```

2. (Optional) Build oncall image locally and load it to kind cluster

3. ```bash
   docker build ../engine -t oncall/engine:latest --target dev
   kind load docker-image oncall/engine:latest
   ```

4. Install the helm chart

   ```bash
      helm install helm-testing \
      --wait \
      --values ./simple.yml \
      ./oncall
   ```

5. Get credentials

   ```bash
   echo "\n\nOpen Grafana on localhost:30002 with credentials - user: admin, password: $(kubectl get secret --namespace default helm-testing-grafana -o jsonpath="{.data.admin-password}" | base64 --decode ; echo)"
   echo "Open Plugins -> Grafana OnCall -> fill form: backend url: http://host.docker.internal:30001"
   ```

6. Clean up

   ```bash
   kind delete cluster
   ```

Commit message:

Use Tilt for local development (#1396)
# What this PR does

PR adds Tilt for local development

## Which issue(s) this PR fixes

## Checklist

- [ ] Tests updated
- [ ] Documentation added
- [ ] `CHANGELOG.md` updated

---------

Co-authored-by: Joey Orlando <joseph.t.orlando@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Ildar Iskhakov <Ildar.iskhakov@grafana.com>
Co-authored-by: Michael Derynck <michael.derynck@grafana.com>
Co-authored-by: Joey Orlando <joey.orlando@grafana.com>

helm/README.md, after:

# How to run the chart locally

1. Create the cluster with [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/#installation)

   > Make sure ports 30001 and 30002 are free on your machine

   ```bash
   kind create cluster --image kindest/node:v1.24.7 --config kind.yml
   ```

2. (Optional) Build oncall image locally and load it to kind cluster

3. ```bash
   docker build ../engine -t oncall/engine:latest --target dev
   kind load docker-image oncall/engine:latest
   ```

4. Install the helm chart

   ```bash
      helm install helm-testing \
      --wait \
      --values ./simple.yml \
      ./oncall
   ```

5. Get credentials

   ```bash
   echo "\n\nOpen Grafana on localhost:30002 with credentials - user: admin, password: $(kubectl get secret --namespace default helm-testing-grafana -o jsonpath="{.data.admin-password}" | base64 --decode ; echo)"
   echo "Open Plugins -> Grafana OnCall -> fill form: backend url: http://host.docker.internal:30001"
   ```

6. Clean up
   If you happen to `helm uninstall helm-testing` be sure to delete all the Persistent Volume Claims, as Postgres stores
   the auto-generated password on disk, and the next `helm install` will fail.

   ```bash
   kubectl delete pvc --all
   kubectl delete pv --all
   ```

   This, of course, will delete all the PVs and PVCs also :-)

   ```bash
   kind delete cluster
   ```
