docs/sources/integrations/alertmanager/index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - add-alertmanager/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-alertmanager/
keywords:
  - Grafana Cloud
  - Alerts
  - Notifications
  - on-call
  - Alertmanager
  - Prometheus
title: Alertmanager
weight: 300
---

# Alertmanager integration for Grafana OnCall

> You must have the [role of Admin][user-and-team-management] to be able to create integrations in Grafana OnCall.

The Alertmanager integration handles alerts from [Prometheus Alertmanager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/alertmanager/).
This integration is the recommended way to send alerts from Prometheus deployed in your infrastructure, to Grafana OnCall.

> **Pro tip:** Create one integration per team, and configure alertmanager labels selector to send alerts only related to that team

## Configuring Grafana OnCall to Receive Alerts from Prometheus Alertmanager

1. In the **Integrations** tab, click **+ New integration**.
2. Select **Alertmanager Prometheus** from the list of available integrations.
3. Enter a name and description for the integration, click **Create**
4. A new page will open with the integration details. Copy the **OnCall Integration URL** from **HTTP Endpoint** section.
You will need it when configuring Alertmanager.

<!--![123](../_images/connect-new-monitoring.png)-->

## Configuring Alertmanager to Send Alerts to Grafana OnCall

1. Add a new [Webhook](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/configuration/#webhook_config) receiver to `receivers`
section of your Alertmanager configuration
2. Set `url` to the **OnCall Integration URL** from previous section
3. Set `send_resolved` to `true`, so Grafana OnCall can autoresolve alert groups when they are resolved in Alertmanager
4. It is recommended to set `max_alerts` to less than `300` to avoid rate-limiting issues
5. Use this receiver in your route configuration

Here is the example of final configuration:

```yaml
route:
  receiver: "oncall"
  group_by: [alertname, datacenter, app]

receivers:
  - name: "oncall"
    webhook_configs:
      - url: <integation-url>
        send_resolved: true
        max_alerts: 300
```

## Complete the Integration Configuration

Complete configuration by setting routes, templates, maintenances, etc. Read more in
[this section][complete-the-integration-configuration]

## Configuring OnCall Heartbeats (optional)

An OnCall heartbeat acts as a monitoring for monitoring systems. If your monitoring is down and stop sending alerts,
Grafana OnCall will notify you about that.

### Configuring Grafana OnCall Heartbeat

1. Go to **Integration Page**, click on three dots on top right, click **Heartbeat settings**
2. Copy **OnCall Heartbeat URL**, you will need it when configuring Alertmanager
3. Set up **Heartbeat Interval**, time period after which Grafana OnCall will start a new alert group if it
doesn't receive a heartbeat request

### Configuring Alertmanager to send heartbeats to Grafana OnCall Heartbeat

You can configure Alertmanager to regularly send alerts to the heartbeat endpoint. Add `vector(1)` as a heartbeat
generator to `prometheus.yaml`. It will always return true and act like always firing alert, which will be sent to
Grafana OnCall once in a given period of time:

```yaml
            groups:
            - name: meta
              rules:
              - alert: heartbeat
                expr: vector(1)
                labels:
                  severity: none
                annotations:
                  description: This is a heartbeat alert for Grafana OnCall
                  summary: Heartbeat for Grafana OnCall
```

Add receiver configuration to `prometheus.yaml` with the **OnCall Heartbeat URL**:

```yaml

            ...
            route:
            ...
                routes:
                - match:
                    alertname: heartbeat
                  receiver: 'grafana-oncall-heartbeat'
                  group_wait: 0s
                  group_interval: 1m
                  repeat_interval: 50s
            receivers:
            - name: 'grafana-oncall-heartbeat'
              webhook_configs:
            - url: https://oncall-dev-us-central-0.grafana.net/oncall/integrations/v1/alertmanager/1234567890/heartbeat/
              send_resolved: false
```

{{% docs/reference %}}
[user-and-team-management]: "/docs/oncall/ -> /docs/oncall/<ONCALL VERSION>/user-and-team-management"
[user-and-team-management]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/oncall/user-and-team-management"

[complete-the-integration-configuration]: "/docs/oncall/ -> /docs/oncall/<ONCALL VERSION>/integrations#complete-the-integration-configuration"
[complete-the-integration-configuration]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/oncall/integrations#complete-the-integration-configuration"
{{% /docs/reference %}}

Commit message:

Update index.md (#2513)
Add a small note about the trailing slash for the OnCall Integration
URL.

# What this PR does
A user contacted Support because they were confused by the need for a
trailing slash for the alertmanager oncall integration url. This PR is
an attempt to briefly call out the trailing slash is required in an
effort to prevent user confusion in the future.

## Which issue(s) this PR fixes

## Checklist

- [ ] Unit, integration, and e2e (if applicable) tests updated
- [ ] Documentation added (or `pr:no public docs` PR label added if not
required)
- [ ] `CHANGELOG.md` updated (or `pr:no changelog` PR label added if not
required)

---------

Co-authored-by: Ildar Iskhakov <Ildar.iskhakov@grafana.com>
Co-authored-by: GitHub Actions <actions@github.com>
Co-authored-by: Vadim Stepanov <vadimkerr@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: mallettjared <110853992+mallettjared@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Joey Orlando <joey.orlando@grafana.com>
Co-authored-by: Wei-Chin Call <wei-chin.call@grafana.com>
Co-authored-by: Joey Orlando <joseph.t.orlando@gmail.com>

docs/sources/integrations/alertmanager/index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - add-alertmanager/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/oncall/latest/integrations/available-integrations/configure-alertmanager/
keywords:
  - Grafana Cloud
  - Alerts
  - Notifications
  - on-call
  - Alertmanager
  - Prometheus
title: Alertmanager
weight: 300
---

# Alertmanager integration for Grafana OnCall

> You must have the [role of Admin][user-and-team-management] to be able to create integrations in Grafana OnCall.

The Alertmanager integration handles alerts from [Prometheus Alertmanager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/alertmanager/).
This integration is the recommended way to send alerts from Prometheus deployed in your infrastructure, to Grafana OnCall.

> **Pro tip:** Create one integration per team, and configure alertmanager labels selector to send alerts only related to that team

## Configuring Grafana OnCall to Receive Alerts from Prometheus Alertmanager

1. In the **Integrations** tab, click **+ New integration**.
2. Select **Alertmanager Prometheus** from the list of available integrations.
3. Enter a name and description for the integration, click **Create**
4. A new page will open with the integration details. Copy the **OnCall Integration URL** from **HTTP Endpoint** section.
   You will need it when configuring Alertmanager.

<!--![123](../_images/connect-new-monitoring.png)-->

## Configuring Alertmanager to Send Alerts to Grafana OnCall

1. Add a new [Webhook](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/configuration/#webhook_config) receiver to `receivers`
   section of your Alertmanager configuration
2. Set `url` to the **OnCall Integration URL** from previous section
   - **Note:** The url has a trailing slash that is required for it to work properly.
3. Set `send_resolved` to `true`, so Grafana OnCall can autoresolve alert groups when they are resolved in Alertmanager
4. It is recommended to set `max_alerts` to less than `300` to avoid rate-limiting issues
5. Use this receiver in your route configuration

Here is the example of final configuration:

```yaml
route:
  receiver: "oncall"
  group_by: [alertname, datacenter, app]

receivers:
  - name: "oncall"
    webhook_configs:
      - url: <integation-url>
        send_resolved: true
        max_alerts: 300
```

## Complete the Integration Configuration

Complete configuration by setting routes, templates, maintenances, etc. Read more in
[this section][complete-the-integration-configuration]

## Configuring OnCall Heartbeats (optional)

An OnCall heartbeat acts as a monitoring for monitoring systems. If your monitoring is down and stop sending alerts,
Grafana OnCall will notify you about that.

### Configuring Grafana OnCall Heartbeat

1. Go to **Integration Page**, click on three dots on top right, click **Heartbeat settings**
2. Copy **OnCall Heartbeat URL**, you will need it when configuring Alertmanager
3. Set up **Heartbeat Interval**, time period after which Grafana OnCall will start a new alert group if it
   doesn't receive a heartbeat request

### Configuring Alertmanager to send heartbeats to Grafana OnCall Heartbeat

You can configure Alertmanager to regularly send alerts to the heartbeat endpoint. Add `vector(1)` as a heartbeat
generator to `prometheus.yaml`. It will always return true and act like always firing alert, which will be sent to
Grafana OnCall once in a given period of time:

```yaml
groups:
  - name: meta
    rules:
      - alert: heartbeat
        expr: vector(1)
        labels:
          severity: none
        annotations:
          description: This is a heartbeat alert for Grafana OnCall
          summary: Heartbeat for Grafana OnCall
```

Add receiver configuration to `prometheus.yaml` with the **OnCall Heartbeat URL**:

```yaml
  ...
  route:
  ...
      routes:
      - match:
          alertname: heartbeat
        receiver: 'grafana-oncall-heartbeat'
        group_wait: 0s
        group_interval: 1m
        repeat_interval: 50s
  receivers:
  - name: 'grafana-oncall-heartbeat'
    webhook_configs:
  - url: https://oncall-dev-us-central-0.grafana.net/oncall/integrations/v1/alertmanager/1234567890/heartbeat/
    send_resolved: false
```

{{% docs/reference %}}
[user-and-team-management]: "/docs/oncall/ -> /docs/oncall/<ONCALL VERSION>/user-and-team-management"
[user-and-team-management]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/oncall/user-and-team-management"

[complete-the-integration-configuration]: "/docs/oncall/ -> /docs/oncall/<ONCALL VERSION>/integrations#complete-the-integration-configuration"
[complete-the-integration-configuration]: "/docs/grafana-cloud/ -> /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/oncall/integrations#complete-the-integration-configuration"
{{% /docs/reference %}}
